well howdy there internet people its Bo
again so tonight we're going to talk
about Casablanca and perception
Casablanca is widely perceived as one of
the greatest films ever made and this
perception is so ingrained in American
culture that people who have never seen
it will tell you it is their favorite
film fact it's viewed as something that
had a huge impact on American society
that's the perception so much so that
its most memorable quote play it again
Sam it's it's not in the movie that's
not from the movie perception sometimes
the perception is more important than
the reality now of course we're not
actually going to talk about the film
we are going to talk about Casablanca
though January 14th tomorrow
1943 Roosevelt Churchill and de Gaulle
sit down at a hotel in Casablanca and
they're talking about the situation in
Europe now the Soviet guy he was
supposed to be there but he was a little
busy at the time he was he was kind of
tied up so he couldn't make it
they issued a proclamation a demand
mainly coming from Roosevelt and this
bears out in the fact that he used the
language of grant and it was a
proclamation saying that we would only
accept unconditional surrender no deals
to be made tough-guy wine right there
and that's cool but what's the reality
that's the perception that's what went
out that's what was in the newsreels
the reality is British intelligence
already already working out a deal had
guys within the government of the guy
with the moustache had already made
contact with some of them and they were
like you know get rid of them get rid of
that guy get rid of the mustache and
we'll deal with this we can work out a
deal the boss of our OSS our
intelligence at the time he referred to
it as a piece of paper to be scrapped
without much ado ii germany wanted peace
see back then intelligence actually
worked you know under direct supervision
of the president prime minister so why
was this proclamation made it wasn't
true in any sense of the word it's why
was it made for the benefit of the guy
who wasn't there see as americans and to
a lesser degree those in the UK we did
that it was Audie Murphy General Patton
and Montgomery those three guys took
care of the whole thing the reality is
we really needed that Eastern Front
because if that wasn't there all of
those resources could be turned our way
so we wanted to kind of lock them in and
say don't make a separate peace deal
even though we were trying to or will it
- we wanted to make sure that front
stayed open because our long-range goal
was to take the Germans and just spin
them around and use them to stop the
Soviet advance percept
is often more important than what
actually happened so let's take that
lesson and apply it to today yeah
the perception is we left our friends a
couple months ago and in that case the
perception is the reality that's that
that is really what happened but we knew
how that was going to be perceived all
over the world and we talked about what
was likely to happen and it happened
this week you know they're gonna leave
you too right we created that by
allowing that perception and reality
what about the events of recently us
being the unwanted houseguest again
nations saying you need to leave Anna
saying no sure doesn't matter just this
one country but what's the perception of
all of those other places we're guests
are we really there to help them or are
those bases really just outposts of the
Empire has that perception shifted
because of what we did I would guess
that it has this is the problem with
this administration he's a businessman
he is a businessman he abused things in
a transactional nature the problem is
that's not the way everything works
these things don't occur in a vacuum the
perception is what's important the
perception is what saves lives or cost
them the perception of the last couple
of weeks from outside the United States
it's not good it's not good anyway it's
just a thought
you all have a good night